Everywhere I go I hear the same thing,
that the medical model we've been operating under
for the last several decades is all but dead,
giving way to what is called energy healing.
The field of energy healing is an expansive one,
but each modality has one thing in common.
They work with the natural healing energys
already built into the human body and brain
via the mind body quantum connection.
Leslie Feinberg, who is one of the great pioneers
in this field, has evolved from chiropractic and kinesiology
into an extremely efficient and direct means
of getting a body to agree to, and thus jumpstart
the healing process.
His healing modality is known as NMT,
The Feinberg technique.
First of all, Leslie, if you can explain
what is NMT?
Well, Neurology Modulation Technique
is a method of healing.
It's really a method of inducing the healing process,
which is an innate quality of all living things,
but sometimes it becomes blocked.
So, it's a method that allows us to identify
what the factors are that are blocking healing,
and to make corrections so that healing
can ensue the way it was designed to.
And you actually liken our nervous system
to a bio computer that can be de-bugged.
Exactly.
In a sense.
So in a sense,
most people here are on their computer.
In fact, almost everybody watching right now,
is on their computer, and we can understand
the notion of de-bugging.
Can you get into some of those computer analogies
a little bit, to help progress what's going on here?
I can.
Think about it this way,
that, if a person is perfectly well,
if they're deathly ill,
or if they're somewhere in between.
Whatever the state of their health,
we can consider that the physical manifestation
of some set of instructions in the organism.
And wellness implies that those instructions
are just what they ought to be.
And the illness implies that there's some error
within those instructions.
Now, the interesting thing about our consciousness,
and this is a method of consciousness medicine, is this.
That consciousness is very much like an iceberg,
if you will.
You know, 90% of an iceberg is under the water line.
Only 10% sticks above.
And our conscious mind, the part that we're aware of
and we can introspect with, is that 10%.
But the vast majority of neurological processing
really happens at a sub-conscious level.
And that's the level that we address
with Neurological Modulation Technique
because that's the level that regulates body function.
So we apply a system of queries
and corrective statements
that are fashioned around a particular window
of physiology.
For instance, we might evaluate neuromuscular skeletal
function.
Or we might evaluate allergy.
Or we might evaluate some other function of the body,
and identify where the errors are that are keeping the body
from expressing normal physiology in that area
and make corrections within that information system
so that normal process can unfold
and the healing can ensue.
Now you're doing this through consciousness,
intention, language, and protocols, I understand.
I mean, it's not like you have any modalities,
physical modalities you're working with.
You're really going direct.
Pure consciousness and language.
It's true.
You know, one of the things that I realized
as a result of my studies was that
everything that falls into the category of energetic
medicine is really consciousness medicine.
It's really informational medicine.
To give you an example of that,
if you went to see a Native American Shaman.
And in the course of working with you
they dawned a mask of some power animal
or they brushed you with evil feathers,
they did chants.
You might, on one level, look at that and say,
"What is that some sort of magic or something?"
But on another level you have to realize that
those procedures and those props
that are used by a Shaman
really constitute a body of meaning and significance
that is exchanged with the subject
in order to make a correction
and reset the system into a healing mode.
If you think about going to an acupuncturist,
an acupuncturist will tell you that when they're trained to
insert the needles that they insert into the
acupuncture meridians,
that there's always a particular intention
that is held as they insert those needles.
So really, all of these methods
of energetic medicine are about information.
And, that being the case, I thought,
why not use the most powerful metaphorical system
that humans have ever developed,
which is language.
And it gives us a power to do a thorough investigation
and to make corrections in a
broad array of categories of health issues.
And we have to look at all of the newer
sciences and biology of belief, Bruce Lipton,
and many others that are looking at
the incredible intelligence of individual cells.
Not just collectively, but as individual cells,
universes, intelligence, forces unto themselves.
So of course it would seem communication is everything,
how these cells communicate with each other,
would have to be the building block of all health and life.
So if they're not speaking to each other,
you have wars going on between one type of cell
versus another, we have problems.
So let's go now, back to say, chiropractic,
where we are beginning to work with energy,
skeletal movement, and so forth,
and progress that forward to how you ended up
where you ended up.
I know it's a long story, but kind of,
if you can hopscotch through it a bit,
that would be great.
Well you know, my training as a chiropractor
involved the basic theory of chiropractic,
which is that illness happens as a result of blockage
of nerve energy.
And we broadened that to recognize that
health ensues as a result of the unfolding
of a set of information within the system.
That it's not just a matter of pressing against nerves,
but something that the founder of chiropractic,
D.D. Palmer referred to as quality interference.
That is, at a central nervous system level,
the computations and the information processing
that determine physiology has been somehow corrupted
of confused.
Almost like broken links?
Almost like broken links.
So, for instance, within the realm of say, allergy,
if we look at the allergy situation, what is that?
Well, in an allergy situation you find that particular
person is responding to something that 99%
of the population would find to be beneficial.
Or at least, not toxic.
But in a person who has an allergy
there are errors within their informational system
that cause confusion.
And inappropriate responses of the immune system,
so that inflammation results.
And so what we do is
we engage the mind, body, and the dialogue,
the therapeutic dialogue, to train the mind body
into an awareness of those things to which
it's making an inappropriate immune system response
to identify the informational errors that are responsible
for it.
To correct the labeling, if you will,
that the particular chemicals or substances
have triggered the allergy response, or provoked by,
to recognize the distinction between that thing
that's behaving as an allergen,
and those substances that comprise body,
to recognize where information within the system
has been co-mingled in a way that causes
an autoimmune response.
And those steps then, comprise what we call
an NMT clinical pathway.
That is, a set of query statements
and instructional statements,
to identify and then to correct
the confusion that causes the allergy situation.
Where do emotions figure into this?
Because my understanding is that often emotion,
allergies for example, can have their original
inspiration or onset through emotional events
coupled with whatever the other type of allergen
you know, present at that time was.
So in all of this, where do emotions figure in?
When you're looking at that clinical analysis.
I think it's a good idea to talk about what emotions are.
Mm-hmm, very good.
And we all talk about emotions, and sometimes
we really don't parse it out as far as
has deciding what they really are.
And from the NMT point of view,
emotions comprise the language,
by which the other than conscious mind,
that vast majority of the nervous system
speaks to and compels the conscious mind
to do that which is necessary for their survival
of the organism.
So we don't look at the issue
as good emotions, or bad emotions,
but only emotions that are appropriate
and contemporaneous to the current situation.
Give us examples of a,
what we would classically call a good emotion,
and the outcome in terms of its physiological
effect on the body, versus a negative one.
So we're really clear on what you're talking about. here
Sure.
We might call happiness, and joy, a good emotion.
We might call fear and anger a bad emotion.
But you have to look at the context.
So, if you're walking down the street
and all of a sudden you realize that a tiger
is chasing you.
Stalking you.
(laughs)
Joy and happiness are not the appropriate emotion.
They're gonna get you in trouble.
The appropriate emotion is fear and anger
so that you'll either flee, or you'll fight.
And so the issue is really whether
emotions are appropriate to the situation,
or inappropriate to the situation.
And the term that we use to talk about emotions
that are not appropriate to the situation is
pathophysiologically anchored emotional tone.
Tell us what that means.
Well, what that means is that the person, the subject,
is stuck in a particular emotional melue.
So for instance, we see this sometimes in traffic.
Somebody honks and another driver gets upset
and flies into a rage, and we see people that
find themselves continuously in a state of fear
or anxiety.
Those are pathophysiologically anchored emotions.
And, if we look at the function of the mind body
is the expression of some informational set,
then we'd have to say that when emotions become
pathophysiologically anchored, that there are
some set of errors within that informational system.
So we apply, again, the NMT clinical pathways
to try to identify what those errors are.
And by making this self-correcting system
of the mind body aware of those errors,
it'll have an opportunity to correct them.
So you're saying that the
intrinsic wisdom of the being is always
seeking that homeostasis in self-correction,
given an opportunity?
That's true.
And it responds to an image that is a more correct
physiological state.
Really, what we're doing, as we engage in the NMT
protocol, is identifying and mirroring to the patient,
a picture of the pathophysology of the errors
that it's making.
And building an image of a more correct
and more physiological model
for the body to behave in.
And when the intelligence of the mind body
recognizes that more correct physiological state,
it mirrors that, it mimics that
and switches into a more physiological process.
And heals itself.
Yeah, because even when we're doing
dysfunctional things, I mean some of it's
just sheer habitual, but even in that,
when we initially.
Say we decided to drink a cup of coffee
because we're exhausted,
or drink a glass of wine because we're
feeling a little blue and want to mellow out,
or whatever.
All of those are even so, the body and the brain are
trying and attempting in some way to correct something,
even at that point.
Or we wouldn't initially even reach for that.
Oh I think that's true.
Unless it's just your peer pressure.
Right. (laughs)
Your cigarettes,
say. (laughs)
Right.
So if
given a chance to do it in a more holistic manner
the body, the being is thrilled to be able
to be guided back to its own balance,
its, then right?
Well that's right.
And really, within nature
systems are self-organizing.
And even the simplest of molecular systems
organize themselves into certain configurations.
Living things organize themselves
in a very high level.
And that organization is what guides them
in the direction of wellness.
And when confusion occurs within the informational
system, that's what allows illness to ensue.
Well this is a very refined level
of healing you have created.
Of wellness healing.
You started out in chiropractic, as you were saying,
a little bit ago.
That must have led you to a series of other trainings
and discoveries and breakthroughs
until you finally got to this point
of working with pure consciousness
in a very clinical way.
Well it did.
My training as a chiropractor was primarily
in muscular skeletal problems,
spinal problems, as you might expect.
And that training and the therapies that we use
were primarily physical modalities,
manipulation, stretching, soft tissue work
of various sorts.
Physical therepy methods.
And it was very effective, but it didn't take long
in practice to realize that people had
broader issues that needed to be addressed.
So I began studying with practitioners like
(mumbling), who teaches NEAT.
Victor Frank, who developed TBM.
And those are methods that use
radionic vials, little vials that represent allergens,
or represent some substance,
or some body process or organ.
And there's a protocol that's used then
to try to make corrections in body function.
Kind of like a homeopathic imprint.
Exactly.
A homeopathic imprint on a carrier medium.
And as I use this method I found that it had
some value for some patients, it had limitations.
And I began studying more different types of healing.
And what I recognized is that each of these methods
of healing was really a metaphorical system.
I did some double blind studies
with these radionic vials.
And the thing that I found was that when we would test
with a practitioner using these vials on a subject
and the practitioner was able to take a look at the vial
and identify what it was, knew what it was.
Gave it to the patient to hold, but not to look at,
and muscle tested, that the patient was able to identify,
100% of the time, what those vials contained.
If we blinded those vials
by putting a paper sleeve around them
and put an arbitrary mark,
so that the practitioner, and the patient,
and the subject, didn't know what was in them,
what we found was that the correct identification
was exactly what would be predicted by chance.
So what that told me.
Which is what, about 25%, or?
Well we used four different vials.
So one out of four times, 25%,
would be what chance would predict,
and that's exactly what we found.
Quite a drop from 90%
(laughs)
From 100%.
That's right.
But then this is
this the key right here, isn't it?
This was the turning point.
That was the key.
The
consciousness of the practitioner was transferred to
the client or patient.
Exactly.
And you might ask, how does that happen?
There's an interesting experiment that was
conducted by Dean Radin, he's a physicist
with The Institute of Noetic Sciences.
The experiment that he did tells us a lot about
the mechanism by which NMT works.
And by which information is exchanged
between the practitioner and the patient.
So in this study they brought together subjects,
two subjects.
And those subjects would be hooked up with an EEG machine,
an electroencephalograph.
They'd have the subjects meditate together,
and what they found is that the tracings of the EEG
would entrain, they would mirror one another.
Their brains would fall into synchronization.
They'd fall into synchronization.
So what they did at that point after the synchronization
was noted, is separate the subjects and put them
into a faraday caged rooms, that were light proof
and sound proof.
And what a faraday cage does,
is it insulates the room for many electro magnetic
communication that would happen.
So that there's no way, at least in classical physics
to explain what happens next.
And that is, that when one of the subjects
was exposed to flashing strobe lights to their eyes,
that the very same lighting up of the
lobes of their brain that have correlated
to that strobe light happen not only
in the person that was exposed to the light,
but in the other person locked away in this insulated
and faraday caged room.
So what it tells us is that there is an entanglement,
or a communication that happens,
even when we're not aware of it,
on a mind to mind level.
And this really is a mechanism that plays out when we
produce the NMT effect with our patients.
Another scientist I know of
did a similar study, and this was one just for fun
because he could.
And they did this having the hearts
hooked up between his wife,
who was with friends in another part of the house,
and himself.
She was busy doing what she was doing,
not knowing what was going to be going on.
He was simply sending feelings of appreciation,
gratitude, and love to her.
And the same thing, at the same time their hearts
began entraining and falling into the same rhythm
even though she was unaware,
and actually just socializing.
We've seen the same thing in experiments with plants.
Where a part of a plant is removed,
and one part is impacted, and one other part
in another city responds.
And dogs.
And so now we're into quantum healing,
we're into quantum consciousness.
And you took this and you have created something
that appears to me, to be extremely efficient and elegant.
How did you get to that part
after going through the resonance studies and such?
It was a recognition that if these props
that we were using for different methods
of energetic medicine were just that.
If they were props, representations
of meaning and significance,
then those were really limiting factors.
They might be helpful up to a certain point
but there was a point at which they limited us.
That is, any particular radionic vial that we would use
would have a particular meaning.
Any particular gesture that was used
in some energetic medicine protocol
would have a particular meaning.
Any particular point on the body
that was used as a representation
in the course of fiscal medicine modality
would have some particular meaning.
So it occurred to me that if we used language structure,
semantic structure, to convey meaning,
and to query, to question the mind body
for to identify the nature of the problems
that were causing illness,
that it gave us much more latitude
and much more flexibility, much more power,
because language is the strongest,
and most powerful metaphorical system
that humans have ever built.
So it gives us much more ability to
identify what's going on in the body.
You're not talking into the
busy conscious mind either.
I've seen NMT in action.
Yes.
And there's often, it almost seems
like the practitioner is almost speaking under their breath
to the body directly.
Exactly.
So the person can zone out
and you don't have to be aware of what's going on at all.
So we're talking about the real mind body connection,
not the conscious chattering mind body connection.
That's exactly right, because the conscious mind
doesn't control the body.
As we're having this conversation
your liver is doing different things,
your heart is doing different things,
your digestive system are doing different things,
but you're not thinking of that at all
with your conscious mind.
And yet, those are all functions that have to be
regulated moment by moment by moment
in a very accurate way.
So again, going back to the iceberg metaphor,
the 10% is that 10% that you and I are using
to have this conversation.
But the 90% is the much larger portion of our nervous
system that is regulating the body.
So as we perform NMT,
what you would see is that the practitioner
would select a particular
clinical pathway
appropriate to whatever the problems were
that the patient was having.
And the practitioner would typically
verbally deliver the query statements
and the corrective statements.
The reason that that's done,
there are a couple of reasons really.
One is that I think it's a good thing for the patient
to recognize on a conscious mind
what the nature of the interaction is
that we're having with the subject matter is,
and what we're trying to accomplish.
But, the correction that we're trying to make
doesn't happen at a conscious level.
And the proof of that is that this process
can all be done silently, that is, instead of verbalizing,
the practitioner can just bring to mind
these query statements, and command statements.
And muscle tests, we use muscle testing
as a way of getting a response from this
other than conscious portion of the nervous system.
And can go through the whole protocol in a silent way
and get the same response.
We can also use this protocol with animals
who obviously don't understand on a conscious level
much at all.
We can use it with infants who haven't yet learned language.
And we can also use it with subjects that speak
a language other than the language of the practitioner.
And you have an interesting little device,
I don't know if you created the device,
but certainly utilize the little disc device,
that helps almost through a kineseological
type of response, friction, to be able to relay
that information quickly and accurately
from the bio resonance field back to the practitioner
so they'll know exactly where to go
next in their line of inquiry.
Right.
It's very
interesting.
It is very interesting.
And you're talking about a resonance membrane
that's used by some of our practitioners, not all.
And it's a substitute for muscle testing.
Right.
I was going to get to applied kineseology and all this,
maybe you can just launch into how this fits into it.
Sure.
The idea of this is that our conscious mind
is the only portion of the nervous system
that controls speech.
And it may be a lucky thing.
But, the other thing conscious mind controls
all kinds of parameters of body function.
And among those things that it controls
is the ability to transmit motor signals to muscles.
So as we do muscle testing with a patient
we'll ask them to perhaps hold an arm out,
maybe we'll use a shoulder muscle,
and ask them to resist with a certain amount of effort.
Maybe the amount of effort that it would take
to hold up three or four pounds.
And to always be consistent with that level of effort
so that as we muscle test when we notice some difference
in their strength.
If their neck is straining
then you know their trying too hard.
We know they're trying too hard.
(laughs)
That's right.
So if there's a change then,
all things being equal,
they're using the same level of effort,
if there's a change in the resistance that we feel
in the muscle we can use that as a response
to our query.
In other words, if it's our intention
as we interact on this kineseological level,
muscle testing level, that a strong test is an
affirmative response and agreement,
and a weak test is a negative response,
or a disagreement with our statement, or our query,
then we can have a conversation that will proceed
based on strong and weak responses from the
particular test muscle that we use.
Now similarly, we can use galvanic skin response
because the other than conscious portion
of the nervous system controls the sweating response
to the skin.
So we can use devices that measure the
conductivity of the skin, which fluctuates instantaneously
then as we ask these questions.
And as the other than conscious nervous system
gives us an affirmative, or a negative response.
And that's also the basis of
it now going into bio feedback, as well.
So how, so now let's talk about what a dialogue is like
between you and a body.
If you can do that in a really simplistic manner,
how you might begin a line of inquiry,
say someone says, "Oh, my back's really hurting.
"I think my kidneys are off.", and blah blah blah.
Okay?
Let's start from something like that.
Sure.
So if I had a subject in front of me
with a back problem,
I would select a particular pathway.
Typically it would be what we call
the sensory motor pathway.
And in working with that patient
I would first look at what we call the tagging
of affluent stimuli.
That is, how is, how are the signals that come from
the muscles, and the joints, and the connective tissues
being interpreted?
Is the stretch signal being misinterpreted
as a pain signal?
We would identify those errors
that happen in the attachment of meaning
to the sensory signals that come to the brain.
The next step.
That's
important because sometimes a person thinks it's pain
when it's just different.
That's right, that's right.
Pain is an interpretation.
You know, we might think, well, I have pain my back,
but the fact is you only have pain in the brain.
It's the only place that pain is acknowledged
or recognized.
So it is a process of cognition and recognition.
The next step that we look at is
the status of sensory end organs.
So kind of like a thermostat in a house,
it can be set at a low level or a high level.
And similarly, sensory end organ
can be set at a low or a high level.
So for instance, the pressure sensors in the eye
are set at a fairly low level.
It doesn't take much pressure on the eye
before we withdraw from that pressure
because it's a sensitive area.
On the other hand, the sensors on the
bottom of the feet are able to
take quite a bit of pressure.
And you can imagine what kind of a problem you'd have
if those sensitivities were switched.
You can't walk.
You couldn't walk.
(laughs)
And your eye would be vulnerable to all kinds of problems.
Oh gosh, yes.
Wouldn't it?
Yes.
So we look at these.
You could take a poke in the eye
with a sharp stick and get through it okay.
(laughing)
I guess so, in the short term.
So we then go through the rest of the sensory motor path.
We're looking at things like,
the way that the central nervous system processes
signaling.
We look at issues of autonomic influence.
And the result of going through eight or nine
steps of this sensory motor pathway
is to identify all those errors
that are causing inappropriate perception of pain,
or inappropriate spasticity.
And by doing that, to resolve the pain,
it's not analogous to using an anesthetic.
Because if we use an anesthetic,
pain that shouldn't be there that is appropriate
to protect us, would be covered up.
And there's nothing in the neuro modulation system
that does that.
Our goal is simply to identify and correct
body function that shouldn't be there.
So pain that's inappropriate to the circumstances,
chronic pain, in particular, is something that persists
long after the healing process has been completed.
Chronic pain is something that responds very quickly
to NMT.
Because it's an error,
it's the body locked into a physiology
that might have been appropriate one time,
shortly after an injury, but no longer is appropriate.
So once you're able to create the dialogue
you're able to pinpoint where the misinformation
has occurred, how do you then, begin creating the dialogue
again to get the agreement for the pattern
that's been holding to release itself
and go back into a healing pattern?
Or a healing status.
The agreement is signaled by the muscle test,
by the galvanic skin response,
by the use of the friction device that you mentioned.
And the agreement takes a step
by step by step through a multi-step process
that constitutes the NMT clinical pathway that's being used.
So that's where the protocols,
this is where it becomes really refined.
Exactly.
In terms in
exact the procedure.
The protocol from that point forward
to go through layer after layer
until you find an a-ha, there it is, there's the seed.
That's right.
Okay.
So as we apply these pathways
we identify what number of pathways
might be required in order to
resolve the problem that the patient presents with.
So how quickly can NMT
begin working on a person?
And can you give us a few of your,
some examples that are near and dear to your heart
of some dramatic responses.
And then maybe an example of something very typical
that say, has been chronic.
Sure.
I'll just give you some examples from this week
because there really miraculous things that happen
with NMT, but they're not the rare things
where we reach back to a particular case and go,
"Wow, this was so fantastic, I have to tell you about it."
Every day miracles.
It's every day miracles, which is really amazing.
So this week I treated a patient
who was a woman in her mid 20s
in the second month of her second pregnancy.
With a condition called hyperemesis gravidarum,
which is also term nausea of pregnancy.
And this was really severe.
She was retching hourly, severe nausea, all day long.
Couldn't keep anything down, even water,
and she was really miserable.
So this is a situation that happens not infrequently.
It seems to involve some kind of an allergy response
between the mother and the fetus.
Because you have to realize that of course
the fetus is only 50% the DNA of the mother.
So you can imagine what would happen
if you had a kidney transplant from somebody
that was only 50% compatible with you
will similarly there are a lot of changes
that would have to happen to a woman
during the process or pregnancy
to allow them to carry the baby.
And sometimes errors occur
and that results in this nausea of pregnancy.
We treated her once.
She immediately had a 40, 50% resolution of the nausea.
We treated a second time, a week later,
and by the time that the treatment was finished
all of the nausea was gone.
And I spoke with her this week
and she'd told me she'd had no return of nausea.
So it's really quite amazing.
That is amazing.
Let's look at something that a person's carried
with them for quite a long time.
Now you can get a sip of water
while I'm asking this question.
Thank you.
If you'd like.
How about something that is chronic,
that has maybe dogged someone for
the better part of their lives?
So you're talking about really having to
talk to this body. (laughs)
What is, can you give us an example of some of those,
because I think a lot of people watching right now
probably have had something like this.
Sure.
I had a patient who came in to my office
about three years ago with severe low back pain.
She was a woman of 62.
As I examined her, we often go through
a physical examination, as well as our NMT evaluation.
What we found was that her range of motion was
severely limited.
If she tried to extend to arch her back
in a standing position,
she'd immediately have severe pain in the back,
but she'd also have radiating electrical pains
that would go down her legs.
She could bend to within about 12, 16 inches
to the floor.
And she said, you know, it had been this way
for about 15 years.
She wasn't even able to play with her grandchildren.
And it was quite a limiting situation.
She'd been to a lot of medical doctors
and she'd been evaluated pretty thoroughly.
There was no surgical situation,
there was no clear pathology,
no herniated disc.
So we applied the Neuro Modulation Technique,
the sensory motor pathway, and by the time we
finished about a 20 minute session
literally all of her pain was gone.
Amazing.
We explained to her that the changes that happened
with her weren't physical changes.
These were changes that happened at an informational
level in her nervous system.
We also explained that because she had a 15 year history
of severe low back pain that it was likely that she would
see some of the, there would be a tendency
to revert to this familiar pattern of pain.
So it was interesting, her next appointment was
to be a week later, and she had called and canceled.
So I thought, you know, she had been hurting for 15 years,
I should give her a call and make sure she understands
what's going on.
So we had a conversation and she decided to come back.
So we did two more sessions, and from that point on
she was completely pain free.
I think it was about a year and a half later
she came in again, had some small incident occur
and a little bit of pain and we treated her once
and released her.
So it was really quite a wonderful--
Wow.
response
and I understand she's playing very actively
(laughing)
with her grandkids.
Very happily with her grandkids.
That's impressive.
How do you do with garden variety sporting injuries?
Frozen shoulders, things like that.
Shoulder injuries respond very well.
The shoulder is a joint that requires a precise
integration of all this array of muscles that attach
all around the shoulder in order to work properly.
And when there's patterning within the neuro muscular
system that upsets that, the range of motion is off,
it's limited, there's pain, stiffness,
and we usually see those things resolve very quickly.
Oh that's great.
Now let's get to another one.
The buzz word, everywhere I go I've been meeting
so many people, both in this line of work, and outside.
You know, among friends, and people at large.
Cavitations.
The subject of cavitation is our buzz word this month.
Can you talk about what cavitations are,
why they're a problem.
And then I want to take a look at some of you what
you've done with cavitations, which is truly remarkable.
Cavitations are a situation in which the bone
in the alveolar arches.
Can you say that in English?
(laughs)
The alveolar arches?
Yes.
This is the jaw bone.
Alveolar arches refers to the bone in the
masticate mandible of the jaw.
That anchor your teeth.
That anchor the teeth.
And there's a curious thing that happens
where circumscribed area of bone just die.
And this is caused by thrombogenesis.
It's caused by a thickening of this (mumbling) blood
that doesn't allow circulation, and oxygenation,
and nutrition to get to the bone,
so areas of the bone die.
And when they die all that's left is this
trebicular architecture, this bony architecture.
And the rest of the bone fills with
microorganisms, posits, kind of a nasty thing.
It turns out that it's not just a dental problem,
but it's a systemic problem.
There's a chemist, Boyd Haley,
from The University of Kentucky,
whose done a lot of research in this area
of bio toxins, and he finds that the
anoromic bacteria that live in these cavitations
produce toxins that are 1000 times
more toxic than the bothcoitem toxin,
which is considered one of the most toxic
substances in the world.
This is frightening, this is truly
frightening.
It is.
And a lot of us have this going on
in our bodies.
Which is really causing a degenerative effect
in our entire health.
It's true.
It's considered to be behind many neuro degenerative
conditions, because these toxins have quite
a high affinity for the nervous system.
And so it's a big issue.
The way that this condition is usually treated
is with surgery.
And it's an unpleasant surgery because
it involves opening up the gums,
and scraping away the dead bone,
and waiting about a year for it to heal.
So it's something that if there was an alternative
would be wonderful.
Is there, is there?
(laughs)
So I'm
pleased to tell you there is.
And here's how this came up for me.
About four years ago, three and a half years ago,
my wife was not feeling well
and we struggled to find out what the issue was.
She had digestive problems,
she wasn't sleeping well, she had night sweats,
and fatigue.
So we sent her to a dentist,
Bob Stefan, in Spokane, Washington.
And Bob has been a biological dentist for about 30 years
and has a wonderful office.
He has a machine called the Cavita machine.
Now this is an FDA approved imaging machine.
He uses ultra sound energy to
identify the calcium content,
the mineral content of the bone.
Dead bone, obviously is much more porous,
and less dense, than live, healthy bone.
So he did the imaging study for Joann
and found that she had four cavitations.
And recommended that she have a surgery.
Well, we had anticipated this on the basis
of our testing, and had a conversation about it,
and decided that we'd use NMT
to try to stimulate the body to heal the bone.
He kind of chuckled in a kind way
(laughs)
and he said,
"You know, I've tried everything to heal these things.
"I've used cold laser.
"I've injected these things with homeopathics.
"I've done everything you can do."
And he says, "The best I've ever seen
"is about a 10 or 20% improvement
"over the period of a year."
So we said okay.
Let's try this and we'll do an imaging study
again when our testing indicates it's time to do that.
And if necessary, we'll have a surgery.
So we worked for about four and a half months,
using NMT.
She went back to see Dr. Stefan
and he again did the Cavitan study.
All four of the cavitations had completely healed.
That's amazing.
Isn't it amazing?
The bone back?
Bringing dead bone back to life.
Unbelievable.
Yeah.
We call it the Lazarus Treatment.
Wow, yes. (laughs)
I can understand, that's incredible.
So Dr. Stefan was so impressed with this,
he'd never seen it before,
and to my knowledge there are no published studies
of spontaneous healing of cavitations,
that he offered to do 12
pre and post studies on patients in a study.
And we proceeded to do that,
and we've just finished this study,
and what we found is that 90%, just under 90%
of our patients had complete healing of their cavitations.
And we're showing a couple of these
before and afters right here.
Here you can see this jaggedy area
on these little portions of this slide
are obviously where there's bone loss.
That's right.
Cavitation.
And here we can see the bone having grown back,
which is, this is, it's, well, it's an every day miracle.
I don't know so every day, it's like, a miracle.
It is a miracle.
For what modern medicine has
been able to do up until now, this is incredible
It is, it is.
One of the things you have to ask
when you think about this neuro modulation method is
if you can make any changes, in this way,
what are the limits?
That is, if you can dialogue with the portion
of the nervous system that controls the body
and you can make it aware of the problems
that it suffers from, that are causing it
to create the illness in the body,
then where are the limits?
To be honest with you, I don't know
where those limits are.
We're seeing bone regrow,
we're seeing, in a matter of minutes
anaphylactic allergy corrected.
One of the things that I do in the seminars that I teach,
and I've taught about 60, or 65 seminars
in the last five years, since 2002,
is to ask if there's anybody in the audience
of students taking the seminar,
who has an anaphylactic response to a food.
So in about half of our seminars,
this is about 30, 35 seminars,
we've had at least one, sometimes two,
of those people in the audience.
And these are often people not who
get a little itchiness in the throat after they
eat a particular food.
We're talking about these classic
anaphylactic allergies where the throat closes
and they have to be rushed to the hospital
or else they expire.
In every one of these cases,
where we brought a stranger from the audience
on stage, we've treated them with NMT
for the anaphylactic allergy,
what we've seen is that at the end of the treatment
they were able to eat the food and not a single
one of them had an allergic response.
How many of them will
actually put that shrimp in their mouth?
(laughs)
Well you know. (laughs)
I mean, if you think about that,
I was just trying to imagine that,
raising your hand, Yes I have that condition.
Some people are a little hesitant to do that.
Yeah.
But,
I'll tell you a story that's kind of interesting.
We had a chiropractor who was at a
seminar that we did in Las Vegas a couple of years ago.
And here's how severe his shrimp allergy was.
He was with a friend at a Benihana restaurant,
and you know at those restaurants--
Yes.
they prepare
food at the table.
So he and his friend had ordered something.
The people at the table next to them
had ordered shrimp.
And so they were stir frying the shrimp
and the steam, the smell, was enough to trigger
anaphlylaxis and he had to be rushed to the hospital.
Yeah.
We treated
that fellow to our seminar,
and he ate a plate of shrimp.
Had no reaction at all.
Isn't that amazing?
It is.
(laughs)
Okay.
You showed me a slide earlier
that really is just heart rending, to say the least,
of a little girl.
Can you just talk about,
we'll bring this picture up now.
What is going on with her face?
And, if you can describe that.
This little girl is two years old.
And she's the patient of a Dr. John Zilliox
in Amherst, New York.
John came to our seminar,
it was, I think the third NMT seminar
that we taught back in the November of 2002.
This was one of his first patients.
And as you can see by the picture,
the hemangioma is quite severe,
there are large red areas that you see
standing off of the skin,
and you see that around the ear,
the swelling is so severe that
the ear is even closed off.
So the plan, the medical plan,
was to use a series of surgeries
and laser procedures to try to
help this little girl.
But these procedures hadn't been begun yet,
when she went in to see Dr. Zilliox,
and there were four treatments done,
four NMT treatments.
And what you see in the second picture is
January 1st, 2003, about five weeks after
he'd taken the seminar.
And what you see is about an 80% resolution
of the hemangioma.
This is just beautiful.
Yeah, it's really wonderful.
It's difficult to imagine that a surgical remedy
for the situation would produce as good.
Anything better.
Oh, absolutely.
Well how long does it take for a person,
first of all, do the people that take your course,
are they all clinical practitioners of some kind already?
Are they mostly chiropractors, acupuncturist, dealers, or?
About a third of our practitioners are chiropractors.
About a third are acupuncturists.
And about a third are a mix of medical doctors,
osteopaths, psychologists, quite a few psychologists
enjoy this work.
That's interesting.
You can imagine that there's a resonance between
the field of psychology, and what we've described
as the NMT system.
There are RNs who study our work.
So, a few massage therapists, but we're very selective
with the folks that we train.
You need to keep the clinical integrity
intact there, so I can see why you'd want to.
It's important to do that
and it's somewhat challenging work.
Right, right.
Well you have trained, at this point, over 1000 people.
You have hundreds out there.
Other countries other than the US?
We have viewers from all over the world
watching this right now.
We do.
We have practitioners throughout North and South America,
Europe, Asia.
We have a practitioner who's recently trained
from Turkey, actually a cardiac surgeon,
who was interested in the energetic medicine,
he came to a seminar that we taught in Newark
a few months ago.
So it's--
It's out there.
Let me ask
this one question.
Yes.
This follow up.
My understanding is once you begin
the process with someone
this can actually be done remotely
because it is working on the quantum field.
So it's not like you have to pop into an office
if it's three or 400 miles away.
It's true.
It can be done on a remote basis.
Not all NMT practitioners practice
on a remote basis.
But it's just as effective on a remote basis
as it is on an in office basis.
It's a little difficult to imagine
that that could be so, but as we discussed earlier,
with Dean Radin's experiment, it shows
us this entanglement of minds that.
Beyond time and space.
It's beyond time and space.
So the information that needs to be transmitted
can be transmitted no matter where
a person is relative to the practitioner.
Can even the very initial session
be done remotely so the whole thing can be done remotely?
Or is it best to see someone intially
and then maybe go remote, or?
My preference is to see somebody on a local basis
first, but it's not always practical.
Right.
And the
result is that a large number of the people that I treat
I've never met.
They send me a picture,
they complete our paperwork so that we have
a good history for them.
And otherwise, everything else transpires
as we're on the phone together.
Well, it doesn't come much more elegant,
direct, simple, beautiful, than that does it?
I don't think so.
(laughs)
Thank you so much for your time,
and I'm going to be giving you a call. (laughs)
Thank you.
Anecdotally I had a problem with my shoulder
for over a year, which stopped me from
doing a lot of things that I love.
In five minutes with Les, five minutes,
all of the strength was back,
and I was both shocked, and of course, happy.
To learn more about NMT
and to find a practitioner near you,
go to his website by clicking on the link below.
Until next time, thanks for watching.